So now we've got some insight into how
we can describe collaboration networks
in terms of the five main building blocks
that help us to understand network size,
network strength, range,
centrality, and density.
Also how we can map
collaboration networks inside
an organization that you're interested in.
How can you actually draw
those collaboration networks,
figure out who is collaborating with whom.
In this fourth segment we're
going to look at how can we evaluate
our collaboration networks.
So we've got our network map,
we know some things about it.
But is it good or is it bad?
Are people doing what they should be
doing in terms of collaborating or not?
So evaluating collaboration networks is
where the rubber really starts hitting
the road in terms of really starting to
get some value out of all these tools and
techniques that we can use
to analyze collaboration.
So here is our 15 person team again,
new product development team.
And now we've really
got their network map.
We've got all the data, that we need and
we're going to start thinking about,
okay what can we really
take away from this,
what insights can we
generate from our analysis?
So there's two main questions that we can
look at here and there are others too, but
these are probably two of the most
important ways in which we can use
network tools and techniques to evaluate
collaboration inside organizations.
The first is to look at how do
collaboration patterns vary inside
the organization and across
the different people in the network?
And then the second is how do
collaboration patterns matter for
important outcomes?
And so these maybe outcomes that are at
the individual level, group level,
organizational level, maybe it's a unit of
a different kind, maybe it's a team, but
how do collaboration patterns matter for
outcomes that we care about?
So we're going to take each of
these two questions in turn.
And start off with,
how do collaboration patterns vary, okay?
So here is where we apply those five
building blocks that we introduced
back in the second segment; network size,
strength, range, density, centrality and
there are other network measures too, but
these are five of the most
important metrics that we can use.
And I'm just going to focus on
one right now for simplicity,
let's say network size okay?
So if we look at network size and we're
going to map, what we want to do is to
use this building block of network
size and we want to compare across
each of the individuals in the network
how big is their network, right?
And I'm not going to do every
single individual in the network,
there's 15 of them,
I'm just going to pick 5 people.
So we have Lee, John,
Paul, Helen and Julia.
Now network size, in this particular
network that we've been looking at,
is actually a little bit
complicated because as you've seen
there are one way arrows and
there's two way arrows.
There's network size in terms
of what we call inbound size
which is the number of people who
seek information from person A.
So we can count the number of people who
seek information from Lee, from John,
from Paul, right,
from Helen and from Julia.
There's also network size in terms of
the number of people that Lee goes to,
to get information, so
your network may be different if you count
the number of people that you go to, or
the number of people who come to you.
Those are two different aspects of
the network size that are both embedded in
this particular diagram.
So if we think about the in-bound
size of the network,
Lee has three people who come to him for
information.
And the out-bound size, he goes to two
people to get information that he needs.
So even just looking at these simple
numbers across these five people,
we start to ask ourselves some questions,
right?
And this is really what network
methods allow you to do.
They don't give you all the answers,
but they allow you to ask pointed and
important questions about the network and
who's collaborating with whom.
What we can see, for example,
very strikingly is Paul.
We know that Paul is an important player.
Here we see that 9 people go to Paul for
information that they need.
And Paul only goes to 3
people himself right?
So Paul is doing a lot of giving there and
not a lot of taking [LAUGH] right?
On the other hand John only has
1 person who comes to him for
information and he goes to 2 people.
So he's inbalanced in the other direction.
Helen and Julie are pretty balanced they
got the same number of people coming
to them as they go to.
So again this is not to
say that this is good or
bad necessarily but when we look at
these sort of very simple descriptive
statistics based in this case just on
that one building block of network size.
We can look across individuals, and we can
say, well, Paul is doing something that
looks pretty different from John, and
even different from Helen and Julia.
We can look across individuals, and
we can also look over time, and
understand how their networks
are changing over time, right?
So are the number of network ties,
the outbound ties changing over time,
are there numbers of inbound
ties changing over time.
If we do, for example, a network survey at
different points in time, after one year,
after two years.
So if we're trying to change the networks,
are those changes really taking place?
So why do these kinds of statistics
matter, what can they help us to do?
Well, if you think about this from
a people analytics perspective,
there's lots of things in
terms of managing people,
that being able to see
these kinds of numbers,
and analyze these kinds of statistics,
can really help us with, right?
They help us with things like, just some
examples here, performance assessment.
So if we're evaluating Paul,
we probably should be evaluating Paul
not just on how he does his own work but
on how much he's helping people.
That's a very important part of
what he's spending his time doing.
And if we're not evaluating him on that,
he's not getting any credit for that.
And that relates to the pay and
promotion,s are we not only accessing but
also rewarding this kind of behavior.
because if we're not rewarding it,
it's going to stop, so
we may want to change the way that we pay
people, the way that we access people,
to take into account some of these
inbalances that we're seeing, or
the patterns we're seeing in the network.
Do people have the right roles and
responsibilities.
We might be thinking about, well Paul
actually is a very senior person who
shouldn't be spending all his time
giving other people information.
He has more valuable things
to do with his time,
maybe there is somebody less senior
who could be doing this better.
So it helps us to think about whether
people have the right roles or
responsibilities and it might help us also
with things like training and mentoring.
So if you look at the people who really
seem to need a lot of help from other
people, maybe those are people
who should be targeted for
particular kinds of training or
mentoring kinds of programs.
Or maybe they're just junior in the
organization, they're finding their way
around and this will play itself
out over a couple of years.
So we have to really understand why, when
we see a network pattern, it's happening.
But the first step is to see the pattern
and be able to analyze and understand it.
So that's the first question.
How do collaboration patterns vary?
The other important set of
questions that we can use or
look at when we're evaluating networks.
Really important here is how do
collaboration patterns matter for
important outcomes that we care about for
our employees, or our teams, or
our groups, or our units, or
the organization as a whole?
So what is it these collaboration
patterns actually affect?
Again, say we've got these
five building blocks, and
maybe we're just going to look at network
size for a minute but what we really want
to do now is to map that to individual
outcomes, again they could be a group or
organizational outcomes, but
let's say individual outcomes.
And there's lots of individual outcomes
we might care about in terms of managing
people inside organizations, but
let's just focus on performance, right?
Performance is a very important individual
outcome, so the question that we
then construct to answer when we
have these kind of network data are,
how do the attributes of our collaboration
network affect individual performance?
And here this gets very complicated.
There's lots of possibilities,
lots of ways to look at and
analyze these kinds of patterns.
So just to give you a very simple example.
We can look essentially at correlations
between attributes of the network, so
say it's network size, and
individual performance.
And so again we have these two kinds
of network size in this example.
So we have inbound ties, the number of
people who seek information from you.
And maybe you find that there's
a positive correlation between
the number of people that seek information
from you and how well you perform.
And maybe you might see that,
because people who tend to perform well,
other people come to them for advice.
But outbound ties, maybe you see
a negative correlation with performance,
the people who tend to go to other people,
go to a lot of other people for
information that they need for their work.
Maybe they tend to perform less well.
And that's not causal.
It's not because they go to other people
that they perform less well, but it's
usually probably because they're junior or
they don't know the area so well.
So again, we might see a result but we
then have to ask ourselves why do we see
that result,
before we can actually take action.
But being able to evaluate how
our network building blocks
are associated with performance outcomes
or outcomes that we care about,
is a critical step in being able
to get to that intervention.
So what we're doing here is
a correlational analysis.
Or when you get more sophisticated, you're
going to be thinking about a multivariate
analysis where you can control for some of
the variables, and look at the effects of
others more specifically in terms
of how they matter for outcomes.
You're trying to identify relationships
between the network variables and
outcomes.
And again, what kinds of implications
does this have for managing employees?
Well all sorts, right?
Depending on what your outcomes
are that you're trying to look at.
Again, it can matter for
performance assessment, for roles and
responsibilities, pay and promotion.
Who you want to train and mentor.
Maybe it matters for
job rotations and career development.
You want to get people opportunities
to grow their networks,
if that really you find that, that is
really associated with better performance.
Maybe even retention.
If you find the people who a lot
of people come to for advice,
maybe your outcome that you're going to
measure is whether people feel burned out,
they're more likely to leave
the organization, and so
this is going to have big implications for
retention.
So depending on which network variables
you look at, and even more importantly,
what outcome variables you look at,
you're going to be able to come up
with action implications that are going to
be very important for the kinds of people,
managing people implications
that we care about,
when we're thinking
about people analytics.
One thing to be very cautious
about is that there is no
one best collaboration network for
every organization and every situation.
So again it's not the bigger networks
are always better, it's not the denser or
sparser networks are always better.
You really have to be able to understand
how does a particular network
configuration map to outcomes
in a particular situation.
So to understand what's best for
your organization and your situation,
you need to collect and analyze the data.
You can't just say,
well we have this network configuration,
that's good, that's bad.
We actually need to map that and
we can connect it to outcomes that we
care about to really know whether or
not it's good or bad and
what we might be able to do about it.